Mobile Testing

To provide solution to day to day problems like paying an electricity bill, booking a cab, we need a mobile phone
More specifically we need a mobile phone, app and internet connectivity.

Available OS
Android, IOS, Blackberry, Windows

Types of Mobile Apps
1. Mobile Web Apps
	These are not real apps rather they're web apps which used to open web browsers like Google Chrome. It has
the broadest audience of all primary mobile apps types.

2. Native Apps
	These are the ones developed specifically for one platform. It can be installed mostly through Playstore or Appstore
Apps like whatsapp, youtube falls under this category

3. Hybrid Apps
	Hybrid Apps expose the web content in the app format. It is a mixture of both native and web apps

Appium
	Appium is used for mobile testing automation which is developed and supported by sauce labs. It is an open source free software
	It is the most popular tool to perform mobile automation testing, it satisfies most of the open source tools requirements
Open source Tools Requirements:
1. Application source code should not be modified for automation testing 
2. Tests should run across emulators, simulators and real devices successfully. 
3. Should have large open source community for continuous maintenance and support

Advantages of Appium
1. It supports cross platform i.e we can test native, web and hybrid apps
2. Allows one to communicate with other apps
3. No pre compilation of the code
4. Provide support for the inbuilt apps like calendar, alarm 
5. All webdriver compatible languages are supported

Limitations
1. Script execution would be on the slower side on virtual devices
2. No support for toast message
3. No parallel execution although the workaround would be to use sauce labs. 
4. Doesn't support Android apps built with less than API Level 17 (android version less than 4.1), but if one want to automate those lower version, 
then we need to go for selendroid 

Architecture is similar to Selenium WebDriver
Appium is server and in eclipse we'll write the code. 

APK
Android Application Package. They're similar to .exe file in windows but only difference we use it exclusively for mobile devices
We need this apk file to automate the application, in real time application we get this file from devs but for learning purpose, we can get it
from playstore

Real devices
Testing on real devices allows you to run the application and check its functionality, this allows one to check whether the application
runs smoothly in customer handsets

Emulators & Simulators
These two are virtual devices. These devices are not real phones rather devices which mimic the real devices functionality
Android Virtual devices are called Emulator
iOS Virtual devices are called Simulator


AVD Manager -> In android studio, using this only we'll create virtual devices.
SDK Manager -> Provides a lot of packages for developing and testing android applications
adb.exe -> It's a component using which we can install android applications as well. By running the appium server and this in conjunction, we'll get
to know what are all the devices connected to the system.